## Introduction to JavaScript

Welcome to Complete JavaScript Guide, A that starts from basic like DOM Structure, declaring variables, learning about functions, declarations, classes most modern things like promises async JavaScript, spread operators, and most importantly DOM manipulation and building projects with it. Throughout the course, we will try turning out the toughest topics in the easiest possible way, so that programming becomes fun and engaging.

JavaScript is a full-fledged dynamic programming language that can add interactivity to a website. It was invented by Brendan Eich (co-founder of the Mozilla project), the Mozilla Foundation, and the Mozilla Corporation. JavaScript is versatile and beginner-friendly. With more experience, you'll be able to create games, animated 2D and 3D graphics, comprehensive database-driven apps, and much more. JavaScript itself is relatively compact, yet very flexible. Developers have written a variety of tools on top of the core JavaScript language, unlocking a vast amount of functionality with minimum effort.

JavaScript has developed a lot and hence there’s a need for the guide which is not a band-aid guide over the existing ones but a completely full-furnished fresh guide, that teaches you a lot about JavaScript, directly by writing the code as well as by understanding some of the behind the scene concepts of JavaScript. How it works??, How the Global Execution context works? How ‘this’ keyword works?? How the spread operator and rest operator are different from each other and a lot more topics like that.
Learning all these Topics about JavaScript is necessary, it’s important but what’s more important is learning with fun, a content that is engaging that you enjoy the whole lot learning process and that’s why we have included projects to give more emphasis on project-based learning. The projects are DOM based so that the process of learning doesn’t seem boring and practice and we learn where to implement JavaScript.

So, we will initially start with installing the tools and writing our very first code. We will do the #classic “Hello World!!” and after that, we will move on understanding about variables, conditionals, and loops, though the guide is not structured in a bookish manner. We have modified the guide structure to make it more fun-learning and we can understand every topic int the easiest manner. So, the guide structure is a bit different and we have included challenges as well to get the best out of it so that you can get to know you have got the concept or not like we have learned it here and I am implementing it here.

Pre-requisites: Zero (0) Seriously, you can begin with no knowledge. You don’t need to have any prior knowledge of other languages like C, C++, Python, Java, etc anything like that you can directly learn it as a very first Language. (Warning: HTML and CSS are not Programming Languages 😊) And we hope it would be whole lot fun learning JavaScript.
Just 10 minutes of daily walk through each module, you can be a JavaScript expert. There will be a whole lot of knowledge of insight behind the scenes of JavaScript that you are goanna thoroughly enjoy. One request from our side if you find anyone stuck at any point just guides them here to this guide and if you find it helpful then do share it with your geeky programmers’ community and friends.

Though we have tried to cover almost everything as a programmer it’s your responsibility as well to keep looking on to the original documentation of these languages over the internet for better knowledge.

Link: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript
